---
layout: default
title: MyMedia
branch: channel
---

<div class="description">
A client and server combo for serving mp3s and other local media over your local network to your Roku set-top box.
</div>

h2. Getting Started

Check out the "installation guide":README.html for all the details but you'll basically be doing this:

# "Add the private channel to your Roku":https://owner.roku.com/Account/ChannelCode/?code=mymedia

# Start the channel and then visit "the MyMedia registration page":http://rokumm.appspot.com/ to enter the registration code you were given.

# Continue by downloading, installing, starting, and configuring the MyMedia server as detailed by the "installation guide":http://rokumm.appspot.com/walkthro

h2. License

p. GNU General Public License

The server code in this package is to be distributed under the terms of the GPL. The client code is also GPL but with a special attribution exception for the Roku business entity (per their SDK license agreement.)

Some third party code is also included in the web, simplejson, and eyeD3 folders. Each of these are distributed under their author's original license (look in their source to see what they are.)

The folder icon is distributed under the creative commons. All other channel theming artwork is Copyright 2010 _umbighouse_. Channel artwork is free for non-commercial use. Contact the original author if you would like to use the art under different terms.

h2. Authors

Brian Taylor "el.wubo@gmail.com":mailto:el.wubo@gmail.com

* czarjosh
* hoffmcs
* renojim
* onecaribou
* umbighouse

h2. Contact

"Users Forum":http://forums.roku.com/viewtopic.php?&t=25955

"Developers Mailing List":http://groups.google.com/group/mymedia-roku-developers

h2. Download

You can download this project in either "zip":http://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server/zipball/channel or "tar":http://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server/tarball/channel formats.

You can also clone the project with "Git":http://git-scm.com by running:

pre. $ git clone git://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server
